README.md, before:

# Ansible Omarchy configuration

Modular Ansible configuration to manage Omarchy installation and configuration on Arch Linux with my personal preferences.

## Supported version

**This playbook is tested and guaranteed to work with Omarchy 3.1.7**

It may work with other versions but compatibility is not guaranteed. If you're using a different version, configurations (especially keybindings) might need adjustments.

## Prerequisites

Install Ansible if not already present:
   ```bash
   sudo pacman -S ansible
   ```

Install the required Ansible collection for AUR package management:
   ```bash
   ansible-galaxy collection install kewlfft.aur
   ```

## Usage

**Note:** All commands require sudo password. Ansible will prompt for it automatically, or you can use the `-K` flag explicitly.

### Run the entire playbook

```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml -K
```

**System reboot required:** After running the playbook for the first time, a reboot is required to ensure all kernel modules and system settings are properly loaded.

### Run only specific roles using tags

**Important:** Tags work at role level only. Each tag runs the entire role (all tasks within that role). There are no task-level tags for granular execution.

**Bloatware removal only:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --tags bloatware -K
```

**Applications installation only:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --tags apps -K
```

**Developer tools installation only:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --tags dev -K
```

**BTRFS maintenance configuration only:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --tags btrfs -K
```

**Multiple roles (apps + Hyprland config):**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --tags apps,hyprland -K
```

**Skip bloatware removal:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --skip-tags bloatware -K
```

**Skip heavy developer tools:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --skip-tags dev -K
```

## Available modules

### 1. bloatware_removal

Removes unwanted software from the system. Only handles package and file removal.

**Packages removed:**
| Package | Additional cleanup |
|---------|-------------------|
| 1password-beta | Config files, native messaging hosts |
| 1password-cli | - |
| signal-desktop | Config files |
| typora | Config files |

**Web apps removed:**
Basecamp, Google Contacts, Google Messages, Google Photos, HEY, ChatGPT, Discord (includes desktop entries, icons, config and cache files)

**Note:** Keybinding cleanup is handled by the `hyprland_config` role

### 2. applications_install

Installs essential applications and web apps. Supports both official repository packages and AUR packages. Only handles package installation and desktop file creation.

**System upgrade:**
- Full system upgrade (`pacman -Syu`) before installing packages
- AUR packages upgrade (`yay -Syu`) after system upgrade
- Update cache refreshed automatically

**AUR package management:**
- Dedicated `aur_builder` user for secure AUR package installation
- Passwordless sudo access for pacman (required by AUR helpers)
- Uses `kewlfft.aur` Ansible collection with `yay` as AUR helper

**Packages installed:**
| Package | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| p7zip | 7z format archiver |
| bitwarden | Password manager |
| gst-plugin-gtk, gst-plugins-base/good/bad, gst-plugin-pipewire | Whispering dependencies |
| ydotool | Keyboard automation for Wayland |
| wireguard-tools | VPN userspace tools |
| openfortivpn | Fortinet SSL VPN client |
| ddcutil | Monitor control via DDC/CI |
| firefox | Web browser |
| thunderbird | Email client |
| telegram-desktop | Official Telegram Desktop messaging client |
| discord | All-in-one voice and text chat for gamers |
| btrfs-assistant | BTRFS management GUI |
| exfatprogs | exFAT filesystem utilities |

**AUR packages installed:**
| Package | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| brave-bin | Privacy-focused browser for web apps |
| whispering-bin | Speech-to-text with keyboard shortcuts |
| visual-studio-code-bin | Code editor |
| zotero-bin | Reference manager |
| ddcui | GUI for ddcutil |
| geforcenow-electron | NVIDIA GeForce NOW cloud gaming (max 1080p 60Hz on Linux) |

**Web apps installed:**
| App | URL | Notes |
|-----|-----|-------|
| Claude | https://claude.ai | AI assistant by Anthropic |
| Homelab | http://192.168.2.103:3000 | Local IP, requires VPN |

**Note:** Keybindings are configured by the `hyprland_config` role

### 3. hyprland_config

Centralized management of all Hyprland configuration changes. Handles all modifications to Hyprland config files and ensures proper reload.

**Features:**
- Deploys optimized keybindings configuration via template file
- Most app shortcuts use simplified form (SUPER + letter) for better UX
- Only 4 keybindings keep SHIFT (conflicts with window management: C, F, G, T)
- Removes X/Twitter keybindings (conflict with universal Cut command)
- Creates `~/.local/bin/whispering-toggle` script for Wayland compatibility
- Backs up configuration files before modifications
- Single `hyprctl reload` at the end of all modifications

**Important:** After first run, logout/login is required for whispering-toggle to work

**See:** Complete keybindings reference at the end of this document

### 4. btrfs_maintenance

Configures automatic BTRFS filesystem maintenance tasks.

**Features:**
- Monthly scrubbing (integrity verification and automatic error correction)
- Monthly balancing (space optimization, only for blocks with <50% usage)
- Uses systemd timers for reliable scheduling
- Low priority execution (nice 19, idle I/O scheduling)
- Random delay to avoid resource spikes

### 5. system_settings

Configures system-level settings for Omarchy (monitor scaling, keyboard layout, shell integration).

**Features:**
- Automatic monitor scaling configuration based on display type
- US International keyboard layout with dead keys
- Mise shell integration for version management (Node.js, Python, etc.)
- Backup of configurations before changes
- Automatic Hyprland reload after changes

**Configuration:**
Edit `group_vars/all/system_settings.yml` to customize monitor scaling, resolution, refresh rate, and Mise integration.

**Current setup:**
- Monitor: Ultrawide (3440x1440@100Hz)
- Scaling: 1x (optimized for ~109 PPI displays)
- Keyboard: US International with dead keys
- Mise: Enabled (auto-activates in bash shell)

## Host-specific configuration

Variables can be overridden per-host using `host_vars/<inventory-hostname>/system_settings.yml` (highest priority) over `group_vars/all/system_settings.yml` (default).

**Note:** `host_vars/` is not versioned (in `.gitignore`) as each system has its own configuration. The directory name must match the inventory hostname (default: `localhost`).

### 6. applications_config

Manages configuration for various applications.

**Alacritty terminal:**
- Configurable font size
- Preserves Omarchy theme integration

**Default browser:**
- Sets default browser for HTTP/HTTPS links via MIME type associations
- **Firefox**: Default for links from native apps (Thunderbird, terminal, PDF viewer)
- **Brave**: Used automatically for web apps (Claude, Homelab, etc.)
- Modified `omarchy-launch-webapp` script to use Brave instead of Chromium

**Default text editor:**
- Sets Visual Studio Code as default for text files
- Configured MIME types: plain text, markdown, Python, YAML, JSON, shell scripts, C/C++, Java, CSS, JavaScript, XML, log files

**Browser configuration (Firefox, Chromium, Brave):**
- Force-installs privacy extensions via enterprise policies: uBlock Origin, Bitwarden, Privacy Badger, Video Speed Controller
- Configures privacy settings: strict content blocking, third-party cookie blocking, telemetry disabled
- Search engine: DuckDuckGo
- Brave-specific: AI chat, rewards, and wallet features disabled
- Preserves browser state (history, bookmarks, sessions) via intelligent merge with jq

**Thunderbird custom preferences:**
- Automatically deploys `user.js` with your custom preferences to Thunderbird profile
- Preserves preferences across Thunderbird reinstalls and profile migrations
- Configurable privacy, composition, interface, calendar, and security settings
- **XWayland mode for OAuth fix**: Forces Thunderbird to run in XWayland mode (`GDK_BACKEND=x11`) to fix OAuth/Exchange authentication popup crashes on Hyprland

**GeForce NOW privacy configuration:**
- Disables microphone/webcam access via Chromium flags (`--disable-features=MediaStreamPermissionsPolicy`)
- Prevents Electron's default media permissions from activating microphone

**Application launcher cleanup:**
- Hides developer/utility tools from application launcher (Super + Space)
- Default hidden apps: XDVI, Qt Assistant, Qt Designer, Qt Linguist, Qt DBus Viewer, Electron 36/37, OpenJDK Java Console/Shell

**Configuration:**
Edit `roles/applications_config/defaults/main.yml`:
```yaml
# Basic settings
alacritty_font_size: 12
default_browser: "firefox.desktop"
default_text_editor: "code.desktop"

# Firefox preferences (see file for complete list)
firefox_content_blocking: "strict"
firefox_formfill_enable: false
firefox_ctrl_tab_recently_used: true

# Browser extensions (auto-installed on Firefox, Chromium, Brave)
firefox_extensions:
  - id: "uBlock0@raymondhill.net"
    slug: "ublock-origin"
  - id: "{446900e4-71c2-419f-a6a7-df9c091e268b}"
    slug: "bitwarden-password-manager"
  - id: "jid1-MnnxcxisBPnSXQ@jetpack"
    slug: "privacy-badger17"
  - id: "{7be2ba16-0f1e-4d93-9ebc-5164397477a9}"
    slug: "videospeed"

# Thunderbird preferences (see file for complete list)
thunderbird_telemetry_enabled: false
thunderbird_compose_html: true
thunderbird_auto_mark_read: true

# Thunderbird extensions (auto-installed)
thunderbird_extensions:
  - id: "it-IT@dictionaries.addons.mozilla.org"
    slug: "italian-dictionary-spelling"
```

### 7. developer_tools

Installs developer tools for Python, Node.js, Flutter, and general development.

**Packages installed:**

| Package | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| python-pipx | Install Python apps in isolated environments |
| python-poetry | Dependency management and packaging |
| uv | Fast Python package installer (Rust) |
| plantuml | Component that allows to quickly write UML diagrams |
| graphviz | Graph visualization software for creating diagrams and flowcharts |
| texlive-basic | Core TeX Live with pdflatex |
| texlive-latex | LaTeX format and base packages |
| texlive-latexrecommended | Recommended packages (setspace, caption, booktabs) |
| texlive-latexextra | Additional packages (multirow, minted, glossaries) |
| texlive-binextra | Auxiliary programs (latexmk for VS Code) |
| texlive-fontsrecommended | Recommended fonts for TeX Live distribution |
| texlive-bibtexextra | Additional BibTeX styles and bibliography database tools |
| cmake | Build system required for Flutter Linux development |
| ninja | Build tool required for Flutter Linux development |
| jdk17-openjdk | Java Development Kit required for Android development |
| android-sdk | Android Software Development Kit (AUR) |
| android-sdk-build-tools | Android SDK build tools (AUR) |
| android-sdk-cmdline-tools-latest | Android SDK command-line tools (AUR) |
| android-platform | Android platform packages (AUR) |
| android-sdk-platform-tools | Android SDK platform tools (AUR) |
| mistral-pdf-to-markdown | Convert PDF to Markdown using Mistral AI (pipx) |
| @anthropic-ai/claude-code | Official CLI for Claude AI (npm) |

**Flutter SDK:**
- Automatic detection and download of latest stable release via Flutter API
- Installation directory: `~/development/flutter`
- Auto-adds to PATH in `.bashrc`
- Disables analytics by default
- Android SDK auto-copied to `~/android-sdk` with proper ownership
- Configures ANDROID_HOME, ANDROID_AVD_HOME, JAVA_HOME
- Auto-accepts licenses and installs system images (Android 34 with Google Play)
- Auto-updates all SDK components via `sdkmanager --update`
- Web development: CHROME_EXECUTABLE set to `/usr/bin/brave`
- **Note:** Full installation requires ~3-4GB disk space (including Android SDK)

## Complete keybindings reference

### Applications (SUPER + letter)
Most application shortcuts use the simplified form for better user experience:

- **A**: Claude AI assistant
- **B**: Browser (Chromium)
- **D**: Docker (lazydocker in terminal)
- **E**: Thunderbird email client
- **H**: Homelab services dashboard
- **M**: Music (Spotify)
- **N**: Editor (Neovim)
- **R**: Voice recording (Whispering toggle)
- **Y**: YouTube
- **/**: Passwords (Bitwarden)

### Applications that keep SHIFT (conflict with window management)
Only 5 applications require SHIFT due to conflicts with system commands:

- **SHIFT + C**: Visual Studio Code (conflicts with universal Copy)
- **SHIFT + F**: File manager (Nautilus) (conflicts with Fullscreen)
- **SHIFT + G**: WhatsApp (conflicts with Toggle grouping)
- **SHIFT + O**: Obsidian (conflicts with overlay feature)
- **SHIFT + T**: Activity monitor (btop in terminal) (conflicts with Toggle floating)

### Browser shortcuts
- **ALT + B**: Browser (private mode)

### Menus and utilities (SUPER + special keys)
- **Space**: Application launcher (walker)
- **ALT + Space**: Omarchy menu
- **K**: Show key bindings
- **Escape**: Power menu
- **CTRL + E**: Emoji picker

### Window management (SUPER + keys)
- **Return**: Terminal (Alacritty)
- **W**: Close active window
- **T**: Toggle floating window
- **F**: Force full screen
- **ALT + F**: Full width
- **J**: Toggle split direction
- **P**: Pseudo window (dwindle)
- **G**: Toggle window grouping
- **ALT + G**: Move active window out of group
- **Arrow keys**: Move focus
- **SHIFT + Arrow keys**: Swap windows
- **ALT + Arrow keys**: Move window into group
- **1-0**: Switch to workspace 1-10
- **SHIFT + 1-0**: Move window to workspace 1-10
- **TAB**: Next workspace
- **SHIFT + TAB**: Previous workspace
- **CTRL + TAB**: Former workspace
- **S**: Reveal scratchpad workspace overlay
- **ALT + S**: Move app to scratchpad
- **ALT + TAB**: Cycle to next window
- **ALT + SHIFT + TAB**: Cycle to previous window
- **ALT + 1-5**: Switch to group window 1-5
- **CTRL + ALT + DELETE**: Close all windows

### Resize and move floating windows
**Note:** These commands work only on floating windows (toggle with SUPER + T)
- **- (minus)**: Reduce window width (100px)
- **= (equals)**: Increase window width (100px)
- **SHIFT + -**: Reduce window height (100px)
- **SHIFT + =**: Increase window height (100px)
- **Left mouse button**: Move window (while holding SUPER)
- **Right mouse button**: Resize window (while holding SUPER)

### Aesthetics (SUPER + modifiers + Space)
- **SHIFT + Space**: Toggle top bar
- **CTRL + Space**: Next background in theme
- **SHIFT + CTRL + Space**: Pick new theme
- **Backspace**: Toggle window transparency

### Notifications (SUPER + comma)
- **,**: Dismiss last notification
- **SHIFT + ,**: Dismiss all notifications
- **CTRL + ,**: Toggle do-not-disturb mode

### Screenshots and recordings
- **Print**: Screenshot
- **SHIFT + Print**: Screenshot (smart clipboard)
- **ALT + Print**: Screen recording menu
- **SUPER + Print**: Color picker

### System
- **CTRL + I**: Toggle locking on idle
- **CTRL + N**: Toggle nightlight
- **CTRL + SUPER + S**: Share menu
- **CTRL + T**: Show current time in notification
- **CTRL + B**: Show battery level in notification

## Omarchy compliance

This configuration:
- Does not remove critical packages (Hyprland, Neovim, Alacritty, Chromium)
- Does not modify essential keybindings
- Does not touch critical Omarchy configurations

Commit message:

fix(discord): disable internal update checker to prevent startup blocking

README.md, after:

# Ansible Omarchy configuration

Modular Ansible configuration to manage Omarchy installation and configuration on Arch Linux with my personal preferences.

## Supported version

**This playbook is tested and guaranteed to work with Omarchy 3.1.7**

It may work with other versions but compatibility is not guaranteed. If you're using a different version, configurations (especially keybindings) might need adjustments.

## Prerequisites

Install Ansible if not already present:
   ```bash
   sudo pacman -S ansible
   ```

Install the required Ansible collection for AUR package management:
   ```bash
   ansible-galaxy collection install kewlfft.aur
   ```

## Usage

**Note:** All commands require sudo password. Ansible will prompt for it automatically, or you can use the `-K` flag explicitly.

### Run the entire playbook

```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml -K
```

**System reboot required:** After running the playbook for the first time, a reboot is required to ensure all kernel modules and system settings are properly loaded.

### Run only specific roles using tags

**Important:** Tags work at role level only. Each tag runs the entire role (all tasks within that role). There are no task-level tags for granular execution.

**Bloatware removal only:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --tags bloatware -K
```

**Applications installation only:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --tags apps -K
```

**Developer tools installation only:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --tags dev -K
```

**BTRFS maintenance configuration only:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --tags btrfs -K
```

**Multiple roles (apps + Hyprland config):**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --tags apps,hyprland -K
```

**Skip bloatware removal:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --skip-tags bloatware -K
```

**Skip heavy developer tools:**
```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml --skip-tags dev -K
```

## Available modules

### 1. bloatware_removal

Removes unwanted software from the system. Only handles package and file removal.

**Packages removed:**
| Package | Additional cleanup |
|---------|-------------------|
| 1password-beta | Config files, native messaging hosts |
| 1password-cli | - |
| signal-desktop | Config files |
| typora | Config files |

**Web apps removed:**
Basecamp, Google Contacts, Google Messages, Google Photos, HEY, ChatGPT, Discord (includes desktop entries, icons, config and cache files)

**Note:** Keybinding cleanup is handled by the `hyprland_config` role

### 2. applications_install

Installs essential applications and web apps. Supports both official repository packages and AUR packages. Only handles package installation and desktop file creation.

**System upgrade:**
- Full system upgrade (`pacman -Syu`) before installing packages
- AUR packages upgrade (`yay -Syu`) after system upgrade
- Update cache refreshed automatically

**AUR package management:**
- Dedicated `aur_builder` user for secure AUR package installation
- Passwordless sudo access for pacman (required by AUR helpers)
- Uses `kewlfft.aur` Ansible collection with `yay` as AUR helper

**Packages installed:**
| Package | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| p7zip | 7z format archiver |
| bitwarden | Password manager |
| gst-plugin-gtk, gst-plugins-base/good/bad, gst-plugin-pipewire | Whispering dependencies |
| ydotool | Keyboard automation for Wayland |
| wireguard-tools | VPN userspace tools |
| openfortivpn | Fortinet SSL VPN client |
| ddcutil | Monitor control via DDC/CI |
| firefox | Web browser |
| thunderbird | Email client |
| telegram-desktop | Official Telegram Desktop messaging client |
| discord | All-in-one voice and text chat for gamers |
| btrfs-assistant | BTRFS management GUI |
| exfatprogs | exFAT filesystem utilities |

**AUR packages installed:**
| Package | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| brave-bin | Privacy-focused browser for web apps |
| whispering-bin | Speech-to-text with keyboard shortcuts |
| visual-studio-code-bin | Code editor |
| zotero-bin | Reference manager |
| ddcui | GUI for ddcutil |
| geforcenow-electron | NVIDIA GeForce NOW cloud gaming (max 1080p 60Hz on Linux) |

**Web apps installed:**
| App | URL | Notes |
|-----|-----|-------|
| Claude | https://claude.ai | AI assistant by Anthropic |
| Homelab | http://192.168.2.103:3000 | Local IP, requires VPN |

**Discord update check management:**
- Automatically disables Discord's internal update checker (`SKIP_HOST_UPDATE: true` in `~/.config/discord/settings.json`)
- **Why this is needed**: Discord on Arch Linux is managed via pacman, but Discord's client has an aggressive built-in update checker that blocks startup when a newer version is detected on Discord's servers, even if the Arch package isn't yet available
- **Effect**: Discord will launch normally without update prompts, updates are handled exclusively via pacman
- **Technical details**: Discord often releases new versions faster than Arch package maintainers can package them, creating a window where Discord refuses to launch with "Must be your lucky day, there's a new update!" message
- **Relevant Arch discussions**: [BBS #296889](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=296889), [BBS #261415](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=261415)

**Note:** Keybindings are configured by the `hyprland_config` role

### 3. hyprland_config

Centralized management of all Hyprland configuration changes. Handles all modifications to Hyprland config files and ensures proper reload.

**Features:**
- Deploys optimized keybindings configuration via template file
- Most app shortcuts use simplified form (SUPER + letter) for better UX
- Only 4 keybindings keep SHIFT (conflicts with window management: C, F, G, T)
- Removes X/Twitter keybindings (conflict with universal Cut command)
- Creates `~/.local/bin/whispering-toggle` script for Wayland compatibility
- Backs up configuration files before modifications
- Single `hyprctl reload` at the end of all modifications

**Important:** After first run, logout/login is required for whispering-toggle to work

**See:** Complete keybindings reference at the end of this document

### 4. btrfs_maintenance

Configures automatic BTRFS filesystem maintenance tasks.

**Features:**
- Monthly scrubbing (integrity verification and automatic error correction)
- Monthly balancing (space optimization, only for blocks with <50% usage)
- Uses systemd timers for reliable scheduling
- Low priority execution (nice 19, idle I/O scheduling)
- Random delay to avoid resource spikes

### 5. system_settings

Configures system-level settings for Omarchy (monitor scaling, keyboard layout, shell integration).

**Features:**
- Automatic monitor scaling configuration based on display type
- US International keyboard layout with dead keys
- Mise shell integration for version management (Node.js, Python, etc.)
- Backup of configurations before changes
- Automatic Hyprland reload after changes

**Configuration:**
Edit `group_vars/all/system_settings.yml` to customize monitor scaling, resolution, refresh rate, and Mise integration.

**Current setup:**
- Monitor: Ultrawide (3440x1440@100Hz)
- Scaling: 1x (optimized for ~109 PPI displays)
- Keyboard: US International with dead keys
- Mise: Enabled (auto-activates in bash shell)

## Host-specific configuration

Variables can be overridden per-host using `host_vars/<inventory-hostname>/system_settings.yml` (highest priority) over `group_vars/all/system_settings.yml` (default).

**Note:** `host_vars/` is not versioned (in `.gitignore`) as each system has its own configuration. The directory name must match the inventory hostname (default: `localhost`).

### 6. applications_config

Manages configuration for various applications.

**Alacritty terminal:**
- Configurable font size
- Preserves Omarchy theme integration

**Default browser:**
- Sets default browser for HTTP/HTTPS links via MIME type associations
- **Firefox**: Default for links from native apps (Thunderbird, terminal, PDF viewer)
- **Brave**: Used automatically for web apps (Claude, Homelab, etc.)
- Modified `omarchy-launch-webapp` script to use Brave instead of Chromium

**Default text editor:**
- Sets Visual Studio Code as default for text files
- Configured MIME types: plain text, markdown, Python, YAML, JSON, shell scripts, C/C++, Java, CSS, JavaScript, XML, log files

**Browser configuration (Firefox, Chromium, Brave):**
- Force-installs privacy extensions via enterprise policies: uBlock Origin, Bitwarden, Privacy Badger, Video Speed Controller
- Configures privacy settings: strict content blocking, third-party cookie blocking, telemetry disabled
- Search engine: DuckDuckGo
- Brave-specific: AI chat, rewards, and wallet features disabled
- Preserves browser state (history, bookmarks, sessions) via intelligent merge with jq

**Thunderbird custom preferences:**
- Automatically deploys `user.js` with your custom preferences to Thunderbird profile
- Preserves preferences across Thunderbird reinstalls and profile migrations
- Configurable privacy, composition, interface, calendar, and security settings
- **XWayland mode for OAuth fix**: Forces Thunderbird to run in XWayland mode (`GDK_BACKEND=x11`) to fix OAuth/Exchange authentication popup crashes on Hyprland

**GeForce NOW privacy configuration:**
- Disables microphone/webcam access via Chromium flags (`--disable-features=MediaStreamPermissionsPolicy`)
- Prevents Electron's default media permissions from activating microphone

**Application launcher cleanup:**
- Hides developer/utility tools from application launcher (Super + Space)
- Default hidden apps: XDVI, Qt Assistant, Qt Designer, Qt Linguist, Qt DBus Viewer, Electron 36/37, OpenJDK Java Console/Shell

**Configuration:**
Edit `roles/applications_config/defaults/main.yml`:
```yaml
# Basic settings
alacritty_font_size: 12
default_browser: "firefox.desktop"
default_text_editor: "code.desktop"

# Firefox preferences (see file for complete list)
firefox_content_blocking: "strict"
firefox_formfill_enable: false
firefox_ctrl_tab_recently_used: true

# Browser extensions (auto-installed on Firefox, Chromium, Brave)
firefox_extensions:
  - id: "uBlock0@raymondhill.net"
    slug: "ublock-origin"
  - id: "{446900e4-71c2-419f-a6a7-df9c091e268b}"
    slug: "bitwarden-password-manager"
  - id: "jid1-MnnxcxisBPnSXQ@jetpack"
    slug: "privacy-badger17"
  - id: "{7be2ba16-0f1e-4d93-9ebc-5164397477a9}"
    slug: "videospeed"

# Thunderbird preferences (see file for complete list)
thunderbird_telemetry_enabled: false
thunderbird_compose_html: true
thunderbird_auto_mark_read: true

# Thunderbird extensions (auto-installed)
thunderbird_extensions:
  - id: "it-IT@dictionaries.addons.mozilla.org"
    slug: "italian-dictionary-spelling"
```

### 7. developer_tools

Installs developer tools for Python, Node.js, Flutter, and general development.

**Packages installed:**

| Package | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| python-pipx | Install Python apps in isolated environments |
| python-poetry | Dependency management and packaging |
| uv | Fast Python package installer (Rust) |
| plantuml | Component that allows to quickly write UML diagrams |
| graphviz | Graph visualization software for creating diagrams and flowcharts |
| texlive-basic | Core TeX Live with pdflatex |
| texlive-latex | LaTeX format and base packages |
| texlive-latexrecommended | Recommended packages (setspace, caption, booktabs) |
| texlive-latexextra | Additional packages (multirow, minted, glossaries) |
| texlive-binextra | Auxiliary programs (latexmk for VS Code) |
| texlive-fontsrecommended | Recommended fonts for TeX Live distribution |
| texlive-bibtexextra | Additional BibTeX styles and bibliography database tools |
| cmake | Build system required for Flutter Linux development |
| ninja | Build tool required for Flutter Linux development |
| jdk17-openjdk | Java Development Kit required for Android development |
| android-sdk | Android Software Development Kit (AUR) |
| android-sdk-build-tools | Android SDK build tools (AUR) |
| android-sdk-cmdline-tools-latest | Android SDK command-line tools (AUR) |
| android-platform | Android platform packages (AUR) |
| android-sdk-platform-tools | Android SDK platform tools (AUR) |
| mistral-pdf-to-markdown | Convert PDF to Markdown using Mistral AI (pipx) |
| @anthropic-ai/claude-code | Official CLI for Claude AI (npm) |

**Flutter SDK:**
- Automatic detection and download of latest stable release via Flutter API
- Installation directory: `~/development/flutter`
- Auto-adds to PATH in `.bashrc`
- Disables analytics by default
- Android SDK auto-copied to `~/android-sdk` with proper ownership
- Configures ANDROID_HOME, ANDROID_AVD_HOME, JAVA_HOME
- Auto-accepts licenses and installs system images (Android 34 with Google Play)
- Auto-updates all SDK components via `sdkmanager --update`
- Web development: CHROME_EXECUTABLE set to `/usr/bin/brave`
- **Note:** Full installation requires ~3-4GB disk space (including Android SDK)

## Complete keybindings reference

### Applications (SUPER + letter)
Most application shortcuts use the simplified form for better user experience:

- **A**: Claude AI assistant
- **B**: Browser (Chromium)
- **D**: Docker (lazydocker in terminal)
- **E**: Thunderbird email client
- **H**: Homelab services dashboard
- **M**: Music (Spotify)
- **N**: Editor (Neovim)
- **R**: Voice recording (Whispering toggle)
- **Y**: YouTube
- **/**: Passwords (Bitwarden)

### Applications that keep SHIFT (conflict with window management)
Only 5 applications require SHIFT due to conflicts with system commands:

- **SHIFT + C**: Visual Studio Code (conflicts with universal Copy)
- **SHIFT + F**: File manager (Nautilus) (conflicts with Fullscreen)
- **SHIFT + G**: WhatsApp (conflicts with Toggle grouping)
- **SHIFT + O**: Obsidian (conflicts with overlay feature)
- **SHIFT + T**: Activity monitor (btop in terminal) (conflicts with Toggle floating)

### Browser shortcuts
- **ALT + B**: Browser (private mode)

### Menus and utilities (SUPER + special keys)
- **Space**: Application launcher (walker)
- **ALT + Space**: Omarchy menu
- **K**: Show key bindings
- **Escape**: Power menu
- **CTRL + E**: Emoji picker

### Window management (SUPER + keys)
- **Return**: Terminal (Alacritty)
- **W**: Close active window
- **T**: Toggle floating window
- **F**: Force full screen
- **ALT + F**: Full width
- **J**: Toggle split direction
- **P**: Pseudo window (dwindle)
- **G**: Toggle window grouping
- **ALT + G**: Move active window out of group
- **Arrow keys**: Move focus
- **SHIFT + Arrow keys**: Swap windows
- **ALT + Arrow keys**: Move window into group
- **1-0**: Switch to workspace 1-10
- **SHIFT + 1-0**: Move window to workspace 1-10
- **TAB**: Next workspace
- **SHIFT + TAB**: Previous workspace
- **CTRL + TAB**: Former workspace
- **S**: Reveal scratchpad workspace overlay
- **ALT + S**: Move app to scratchpad
- **ALT + TAB**: Cycle to next window
- **ALT + SHIFT + TAB**: Cycle to previous window
- **ALT + 1-5**: Switch to group window 1-5
- **CTRL + ALT + DELETE**: Close all windows

### Resize and move floating windows
**Note:** These commands work only on floating windows (toggle with SUPER + T)
- **- (minus)**: Reduce window width (100px)
- **= (equals)**: Increase window width (100px)
- **SHIFT + -**: Reduce window height (100px)
- **SHIFT + =**: Increase window height (100px)
- **Left mouse button**: Move window (while holding SUPER)
- **Right mouse button**: Resize window (while holding SUPER)

### Aesthetics (SUPER + modifiers + Space)
- **SHIFT + Space**: Toggle top bar
- **CTRL + Space**: Next background in theme
- **SHIFT + CTRL + Space**: Pick new theme
- **Backspace**: Toggle window transparency

### Notifications (SUPER + comma)
- **,**: Dismiss last notification
- **SHIFT + ,**: Dismiss all notifications
- **CTRL + ,**: Toggle do-not-disturb mode

### Screenshots and recordings
- **Print**: Screenshot
- **SHIFT + Print**: Screenshot (smart clipboard)
- **ALT + Print**: Screen recording menu
- **SUPER + Print**: Color picker

### System
- **CTRL + I**: Toggle locking on idle
- **CTRL + N**: Toggle nightlight
- **CTRL + SUPER + S**: Share menu
- **CTRL + T**: Show current time in notification
- **CTRL + B**: Show battery level in notification

## Omarchy compliance

This configuration:
- Does not remove critical packages (Hyprland, Neovim, Alacritty, Chromium)
- Does not modify essential keybindings
- Does not touch critical Omarchy configurations
